Raymarched rendering for atmosphere and spherical coordinates (#20766)
bevyengine/bevy: release-content/release-notes/raymarched-atmosphere-space-views.md

---
title: Raymarched atmosphere and space views
authors: ["@mate-h"]
pull_requests: [20766]
---

(Insert screenshot of space shot including volumetric shadows)

Bevy's atmosphere now supports a raymarched rendering path that unlocks accurate views from above the atmosphere. This is ideal for cinematic shots, planets seen from space, and scenes that need sharp shadows through the volume of the atmosphere.

### What changed

> - Added `AtmosphereRenderingMethod::Raymarching`, alongside the existing default method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added `AtmosphereMode::Raymarched`, as an alternative to the existing lookup texture method.
```

- Added support for views from above the atmosphere.

### When to choose which

> - Default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- LookupTexture
```

  - Fastest, approximate lighting, inaccurate for long distance views
  - Ground level and broad outdoor scenes
  - Most cameras and typical view distances
  - Softer shadows through the atmosphere
- Raymarching
  - Slightly slower, more accurate lighting
  - Views from above the atmosphere or far from the scene
  - Cinematic shots that demand stable lighting over a large range of scales
  - Flight or space simulators
  - Sharp, per‑pixel shadows through the atmosphere

### How to use it

Switch the rendering method on the camera’s `AtmosphereSettings`:

```rust
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy::pbr::atmosphere::{Atmosphere, AtmosphereSettings, AtmosphereRenderingMethod};

fn setup(mut commands: Commands) {
    commands.spawn((
        Camera3d::default(),
        Atmosphere::default(),
        AtmosphereSettings { 
          sky_max_samples: 16,

>           rendering_method: AtmosphereRenderingMethod::Raymarching as u32, 

Author: Convert on extract , good idea. Then the user wouldn't have to do "as u32" . But it also means two structs for the atmosphere settings... which is why I didn't go this route so far.

>           rendering_method: AtmosphereRenderingMethod::Raymarching as u32, 

Author: This added a bit more code and an additional struct called `GpuAtmosphereSettings`, so if this is undesirable can be reverted. but keeps the user facing API cleaner.
